---
title: "Kassite Prosopographic Records" 
date: 2022-06-30
url: /c2/
tags: ["Kassite Babylonia","Prosopography","Digital history","Semantic web","Omeka S","Social network analysis", "Data visualization", "Project"]
author: "with Elena Devecchi"
description: "The project aims to investigate the management of primary resources in Kassite Babylonia (XIV-XIII cent. BC) through a prosopographic study of individuals and social groups that appear in contemporary cuneiform administrative documents."
summary: "The project aims to investigate the management of primary resources in Kassite Babylonia (XIV-XIII cent. BC) through a prosopographic study of individuals and social groups that appear in contemporary cuneiform administrative documents." 
cover:
    image: ""
    alt: ""
    relative: false
editPost:
    URL: ""
    Text: ""
showToc: true
disableAnchoredHeadings: false

---

## Introduction

The project aims to investigate the **management of primary resources in Kassite Babylonia** (XIV-XIII cent. BC) through a prosopographic study of individuals and social groups that appear in contemporary cuneiform administrative documents. The project combines traditional prosopography with Social Network Analysis and data visualization tools to identify the main actors in the institutional landscape and identify their interaction patterns. For this purpose, the collected data is stored and organized in a semantic database developed in collaboration with Prof. Rossana Damiano (Department of Computer Sciences). As a post-doctoral   researcher, I am responsible for the data input and supervise the digital infrastructure and its contents. I am also working onthe reconstruction of the institutional and administrative profile of the main actors involved inthe management of primaryresources, documented by the texts of the Ex Rosen Collection, which have recently been published in CUSAS 30 and CUSAS 37 (Van Soldt 2015, Devecchi 2020). A preliminary report on the project was presented at the Egitto e Vicino Oriente 2022 Conference in Rome in July 2022.

---

## Presentations

+ **RAI 68**, Leiden (with Elena Devecchi, 2023): "The Project “Kassite Prosopographic Records: Traditional and Digital Prosopography for the Study of Society and Economy in Kassite Babylonia”
+ **From Names to Persons, from Persons to Society**, Turin (2023): "Ninurta-zākir-šumi: Activities of an Official in the Kassite Administration"
+ **Egitto e Vicino Oriente 2022**, Rome (with Elena Devecchi, 2023): "Società, amministrazione ed economia nella Babilonia di epoca cassita: un progetto di digital prosopography", [2022 EVOA](/z1.pdf)

---

## Publications
+ "Bridging Representation and Visualization in Prosopographic Research: A Case Study", with Alessandra Urbinati *et al.* [PDF](https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3286/09_paper.pdf)
+ "Società, amministrazione ed economia nella Babilonia di età cassita: un progetto di *digital prosopography*", *Scienze dell'antichità* 29 (with Elena Devecchi), in press