---
title: "Ninurta-zākir-šumi: Activities of an Official in the Kassite Administration" 
date: 2023-06-05
url: /p5/
author: "Erica Scarpa"
tags: ["Kassite Babylonia","Prosopography","Digital history"]
description: "In this presentation I explore the role and activities of Ninurta-zākir-šumi in the management of essential commodities and livestock across several towns in the Nippur countryside during the first half of the thirteenth century BC." 
summary: "From Names to Persons, from Persons to Society: Case Studies from Hatti, Babylonia and Assyria, Torino" 
cover:
    image: ""
    alt: ""
    relative: false
editPost:
    URL: ""
    Text: "From Names to Persons, from Persons to Society: Case Studies from Hatti, Babylonia and Assyria, Torino"
showToc: false
disableAnchoredHeadings: false

---

## Overview

In this presentation I explore the role and activities of Ninurta-zākir-šumi in the management of essential commodities and livestock across several towns in the Nippur countryside during the first half of the thirteenth century BC. As our understanding of Kassite bureaucracy and administration is still developing, to effectively convey the essence of this investigation, I adopted a storytelling approach, painting a vivid picture of the time and place where Ninurta-zākir-šumi operated as a devoted official within the Kassite administration. Ninurta-zākir-šumi's activities flourished during the Middle Kassite Period, particularly under the reigns Nazi-Maruttaš, and Kadašman-Turgu. His enterprises spanned approximately three decades, as evidenced by his mention in numerous juridical and administrative documents. The recently published Rosen Collection documents shed new light on the previously unknown microcosm of Dūr-Enlilē, a town located within the Nippur countryside, which contributed to our understanding of Kassite society.  

The available sources indicate that Ninurta-zākir-šumi played a crucial role in the distribution of commodities, livestock management, and legal matters. He entrusted shepherds with the care of livestock, facilitated the provision of raw materials to brewers and millers, and oversaw the fulfillment of obligations for local productive social groups. His involvement extended beyond administrative duties, as he intervened in legal disputes and secured the release of individuals from captivity.